<p>The teacher understands how to connect concepts and use differing perspectives to engage learners in critical thinking, creativity, and collaborative problem solving related to authentic local and global issues.</p>
<h4>PDFs</h4>
<p><a href="Lesson%20plan.pdf">InTASC 5 Lesson Plan</a></p>
<p><a href="Reflection%20InTASC%205%20final.pdf">InTASC 5 Reflection</a></p>

<p>Abstract: This portfolio entry is all about how a statistics lesson is a fantastic example of application of content in the real world. Students learn how segregation in public schools is relevant to them in this lesson and therefore relates their own lives to statistics. This leads to the notion that statistics can be applied almost anywhere, and students also process how statistics is related to them personally through a relevant modern student artifact that lets students be creative.</p>
<p>Rationale: This lesson is a great application of content because the entire lesson is all about relating statistics to the real world around us. Segregation in Public Schools is relevant to students and therefore is an engaging topic for them. Not only does the lesson relate student lives to statistics in that way, students also must think of another way that their lives relate to the math content. As well, the lesson revolves around literacy and therefore applies literacy to the math classroom. Students read an article about Segregation in Public Schools, and then use their interpersonal and discussion skills to talk in small groups. Therefore this lesson is wonderful in it’s application of math in student lives and also preparing students for the world ahead.</p>
<h3 align="center">InTASC 5 Reflection</h3>
<p>The lesson I chose is an exemplary application of content because it relates the basics of statistics to something meaningful and passionate to students. This statistics lesson is about learning and relating basic vocabulary such as Experiment, Observational Study, and Sample Survey to experiences the students have experienced. Although some students may not have realized it, they all have encountered segregation in public schools. Using this as an engagement, students relate statistics to not only their own lives but also their reading. Reading and annotating an article about segregation in public schools answers the question students are asking in both reading and math classes: “What does this have to do with me?”. Through this relation and engagement into statistics, students will learn the uses of doing statistical experiments. During this lesson in particular students discuss how segregation in schools relates to both themselves and statistics. The article chosen for this lesson has statistics and graphs in it, and the students discuss how they can be used and further implemented. Using statistics, students can advocate, argue, and raise awareness to topics that they are passionate about, and this lesson leads into a project where they will do just that. Knowing what vocabulary words mean and how they can be applied to real life is just as important as knowing formulas, and this application of statistics is a wonderful way to engage students as it relates to them personally.</p>
<p>This lesson is exemplary because it uses literacy in the math classroom. While word problems and such are also literacy, this lesson takes an article and takes literacy through the roof. This lesson also promotes students to use collaboration, listening, and discussion skills during a small group discussion about how the article and vocabulary words relate to statistics and their own lives. Not only does this lesson relate statistics to the real world, but it relates reading to mathematics. Students learn how literacy can be applied to math in addition to how statistics can be applied to the world. Not only does the article and engagement of the lesson relate to student lives, but also students themselves relate statistics to their own personal lives at the end of the lesson, so although they may have been engaged through relation for the duration of the lesson they also get to think about and reflect on how statistics may have influenced them. This part of the lesson is also relatable because students make a tweet about how statistics is related to their lives, which is a modern way to relate the classroom to modern day. </p>
<p>Relation of math and real life is very important to engage and keep students during any lesson, and since not every lesson can be related to real life it is important to heavily relate the ones that can. Interpersonal skills are also incredibly important to bring to the classroom to prepare students for that real life that they always want to apply math to. That is what makes this lesson an exemplary example of how math can be applied to the real world. </p>


<h2 align="center">Portfolio Entries</h2>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/Emily-Trumble-Portfolio/">Introduction</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_1/">InTASC 1</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_2/">InTASC 2</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_3/">InTASC 3</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_4/">InTASC 4</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_5/">InTASC 5</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_6/">InTASC 6<a/></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_7/">InTASC 7</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_8/">InTASC 8</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_9/">InTASC 9</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/InTASC_10/">InTASC 10</a></p>
<p align="center"><a href="https://etrumble.github.io/Technology_Standard/">Technology Standard</a></p>
